## What is SQL?

**SQL (Structured Query Language) is a programming language designed for managing data in a relational database.** It's been around since the 1970s and is the most common method of accessing data in databases today. SQL has a variety of functions that allow its users to read, manipulate, and change data. Though SQL is commonly used by engineers in software development, it's also popular with data analysts for a few reasons:

- It's semantically easy to understand and learn.
- Because it can be used to access large amounts of data directly where it's stored, analysts don't have to copy data into other applications.
- Compared to spreadsheet tools, data analysis done in SQL is easy to audit and replicate. For analysts, this means no more looking for the [cell with the typo in the formula](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/04/16/is-the-best-evidence-for-austerity-based-on-an-excel-spreadsheet-error/).

SQL is great for performing the types of aggregations that you might normally do in an Excel pivot table—sums, counts, minimums and maximums, etc.—but over much larger datasets and on multiple tables at the same time.

## What's a database?

From [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database): **A database is an organized collection of data**.

There are many ways to organize a database and many different types of databases designed for different purposes. Mode's structure is fairly simple:

If you've used Excel, you should already be familiar with tables—they're similar to spreadsheets. Tables have rows and columns just like Excel, but are a little more rigid. Database tables, for instance, are always organized by column, and each column must have a unique name. 